Add docs for jslib http-instrumentation-tempo (#1555)
grafana/k6-docs: docs/sources/next/javascript-api/jslib/http-instrumentation-tempo/_index.md

---
title: 'HTTP instrumentation for Tempo'
menuTitle: http-instrumentation-tempo
description: 'k6 Tempo instrumentation API'
weight: 04
---

# HTTP instrumentation for Tempo

> With this jslib, you can _instrument_ HTTP requests so that they emit traces as the test runs. Use it to include a tracing context in HTTP requests so that tracing backends (such as [Grafana Tempo](https://grafana.com/oss/tempo/)) can incorporate their results.

Reviewer: I would link to our k6 x Tempo [docs](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/testing/k6/analyze-results/integration-with-grafana-cloud-traces/?pg=blog&plcmt=body-txt) here. Also, the last sentence doesn't really make sense to me. What does "tracing backends [...] can incorporate their results" mean?

Author: ```suggestion
With this jslib, you can _instrument_ HTTP requests so that they emit traces as the test runs. Use it to include a tracing context in HTTP requests so that tracing backends such as [Grafana Tempo](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/testing/k6/analyze-results/integration-with-grafana-cloud-traces/?pg=blog&plcmt=body-txt).
```

Author: @Blinkuu I think if this is okay - I will just merge this PR and we can always edit the docs after this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this jslib, you can _instrument_ HTTP requests so that they emit traces as the test runs. Use it to include a tracing context in HTTP requests, which can then be used by a tracing backend such as [Grafana Tempo](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/testing/k6/analyze-results/integration-with-grafana-cloud-traces/).
```

How about this?

---

> title: "http instrument tempo"
> descriptiontion: "k6 tempo instrumentation API"
> weight: 04
> weight: 04
> ---
> 
> # Tempo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "HTTP instrumentation for Tempo"
menuTitle: http-instrumentation-tempo
description: "k6 Tempo instrumentation API"
weight: 04
---

# HTTP instrumentation for Tempo
```

> With this jslib, you can _instrument_ HTTP requests so that they emit traces as the test runs.

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to add a mention of how this library is related to Grafana Tempo here as well? I think it's only mentioned in the `client.md` page.

> ## About trace contexts

Author: While trying to edit the old docs to these ones ... I pretty much decide that the `tempo` name is ... pretty bad and it probably should be `tracing` instead.

Reviewer 3: In the spirit of getting things merge, we'll keep it name as-is for now, and let's reevaluate at a future point in time if we deem it necessary 👍🏻

> A _trace context_ is a set of standardized HTTP headers added to a request that lets a tracing system correlate the request with other requests as they navigate through a system. The trace context specifications, such as the supported [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) and [Jaeger Trace Context](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/client-libraries/#propagation-format), define specific header names and an encoding format for the header values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _trace context_ is a set of standardized HTTP headers added to a request that lets a tracing system correlate it with other requests as they navigate through a system. The trace context specifications, such as the supported [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) and [Jaeger Trace Context](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/client-libraries/#propagation-format), define specific header names and an encoding format for the header values.
```

A trace context generally consists of, at least, a `trace_id`, a `span_id`, and a `sampled` flag. The `trace_id` is a unique identifier for the trace, the `span_id` is a unique identifier for the request, and the `sampled` flag is a boolean that indicates whether the request should be traced. For instance, the [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) defines the `Traceparent` header, whose value contains a `trace_id`, a `span_id` and a `sampled` flag, encoded as a dash (`-`) separated list of hexadecimal values. When a trace context header is attached to an HTTP request, we refer to it as being _propagated_ to the downstream service.

## API

| Class/Function                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                               |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | [instrumentHTTP](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/<K6_VERSION>/javascript-api/jslib/http-instrumentation-tempo/instrumenthttp) | instruments the k6 http module with tracing capabilities.                                                                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [instrumentHTTP](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/<K6_VERSION>/javascript-api/jslib/http-instrumentation-tempo/instrumenthttp) | Instruments the k6 http module with tracing capabilities.                                                                 |
```

> | [Client](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/<K6_VERSION>/javascript-api/jslib/http-instrumentation-tempo/client)                 | configurable Client that exposes instrumented HTTP operations and allows selectively instrumenting requests with tracing. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [Client](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/<K6_VERSION>/javascript-api/jslib/http-instrumentation-tempo/client)                 | A configurable client that exposes instrumented HTTP operations and allows selectively instrumenting requests with tracing. |
```
